Understanding the spatial and temporal distribution of pumping
Accurate pumping records are often unavailable where
Natural and anthropogenic forcings including pumping, precipitation,
MODFLOW groundwater-head observations containing the designed forcings
Verified numerical aquifer response for subsequent pumping recovery
A regular spatiotemporal head field
First-differenced stationary high-frequency head changes
Orthogonal spatial patterns with temporal expansion coefficients
Source-stated rescaled EOF representation prepared for Varimax
Varimax-rotated localized spatial patterns
Pumping-like EOF modes and their EC time series
Intrinsic mode functions and a residual trend
Complex analytic signal for the IMF
Time-varying IMF amplitude series
Time-varying IMF frequency series
Frequency-amplitude product series
Outlier times associated with non-pumping contamination
Bounded gaps in the pumping-like EC
Reconstructed pumping-like EC for the current iteration
A denoised EC when both criteria are satisfied
Pumping-on and pumping-off timestamps
Actual pumping-associated head variation over each operating interval
Mode-specific space-time pumping-rate field
Total spatiotemporal pumping-rate distribution
Per-well and total designed-versus-estimated pumping amounts
Table 1 absolute and relative errors including 6.6 percent total
The EOF-HHT framework can recover localized pumping patterns and